This is the v5.5.0 development version

Note that large sections of the code has been re-written and there are
significant changes to the configuration files in v5.

V5 is written in c++11 and so to compile it you will need gcc v5.4 
or later. (or another complier that supports the full c++11).  
Note that the target systems may also need an c++11 library update.

See notes/NEWIN_v4 for details of the major process model changes 
incorporated from version 4.

REVISED LIST and STORYBOARDING MODEL

Version 5 has a completely revised model for defining and using lists.

List definition is now separated from list application. Lists are no longer
hard-coded, but mapped to a function using a storyboard.  

Filtering logic flow is simplified and made more consistent.  Requests are 
analysed first and flags set (exception, grey, blocked etc) and once this 
checking is complete actions are taken.  Large sections of duplicate logic
has been removed from ConnectionHandler and large sections are now
separate functions.

Storyboarding is a simple scripting language that maps lists to functions
and allows flags to be set. 

This means that new lists can be added without changing the code, by adding
a new list definition and then applying it in a revised storyboard.  

A different storyboard can be applied to each filtergroup, so if required, 
each filtergroup can have a different logic flow.

Please read notes/V5_list_definition.pdf & notes/V5_Storyboard.pdf for
details.

TRANSPARENT HTTPS

    Detects SNI and flags whether traffic is TLS.  
    Currently limited to port 443 traffic on BSD.
    On Linux multiple ports can be redirected.

ICAP SERVER

    REQMOD and RESPMOD mode supported.
    See notes/icap.

DIRECT UPSTREAM ACCESS I.e. not via proxy.  

    To implement globaly comment out 'proxyip =' in e2guardian.conf.

    The storyboard action setgodirect can be used within checkrequest functions 
    to enable selected protocols/site/urls to godirect.
    e.g. to send all connect requests directly add
		if(connect) setgodirect
	to a requestchecks function.
    This can be also useful to by-pass squid for some requests (e.g. os update 
    sites) when squid authentication methods are being used.

STORYBOARD TRACING

    New option 'storyboardtrace' to enable tracing output -
    for storyboard bug-fixing

READABLE THREAD_ID FOR LOGS & DEBUG

    Most debug and syslog messages are now prefixed with a thread ID as
    follows:- 

    master: for master thread

    listen1_proxy:  normal proxy listener
    listen1_thttps: tranparent https listener
    listen1_icap: icap listener

    where '1' is index

    hw10: for http_worker threads where '10' is the thread number

    log: for logging thread for access.log
    
HTTP/1.1

    Support for HTTP v1.1 completed - including Chunked encoding 

ANTI-VIRUS PLUGINS

    Anti-virus plugins implimented for proxy, trans and ICAP 

INCLUDE FILES IN e2guardianf1.conf

    Filtergroup configuration files may now include other files, enabling 
    a more DRY approach to configuration. So configuration common to several
    filtergroups can be placed in a file which is included in the filtergroup 
    config file. 
 
    Syntax is same as list includes  -
    .include<full_path_to_file>

    Where single options and list defines with the same name are 
    repeated only the last one read will be actioned.  This differs 
    from pre-v5 versions where the first single option was actioned and any 
    repeats ignored.  This allows the overwriting of single options and 
    re-definion of lists in a structured way.

LIST INPUT VIA STDIN

This replaces the totalblocklist in previous versions allowing multiple
lists to be loaded via stdin.  See notes/lists_via_stdin.

OPENSSL v1.1 SUPPORT

    Supports OpenSSL v1.1 
    Note: Support for pre v1.1 OpenSSL versions is withdrawn in v5.5.

% OPTION FOR PHRASE LISTS

    New % weighting option for phrase lists
    
Code amended so that -Wall compile option gives no warnings 

Amended code so that -Wall compile option gives no warnings 

BETTER HANDLING OF TRANSPARENT HTTPS REQUESTS

Requests without SNI and those not TLS no longer tried for MITM.
New option to use original ip & port (currently Linux only)

RELATIVE PATHS IN .Includes and list definition

The directory of the current .conf (or list file) is taken as the prefix
path.

LIST DIRECTORY VARIABLE

A list directory variable (LISTDIR) can be defined in config files.
This works like an exported shell variable and the contents will replace
__LISTDIR__ wherever it occurs in a .conf file or list file .Include.

This feature will allow the development of templates and easier separation
between boilerplate and user configuration.

REORGANIZED e2guardian.conf files and list directories.

Both example e2guardian.conf files are reorganized into sections and more
usage notes added to make it easier for new users to understand what changes
they will need.

List directory reorganized into sub-directories and READMEs added to help 
users to know which list(s) to change.  
The example.group sub-directory should be copied in a groupn directory for 
each group.  
Common lists are now in the common sub-directory.  
As each group's lists are now in a different directory
the e2guardianf1.conf files will be able to be copied into a new group .conf 
with minimal changes.

V5.5 
NEW LOGGER and DEBUG system for logging, messages and debuging.

Thanks to KDGunermann for all his work on this!

This replaces the legacy and 'NEWDEBUG' with a unified logging system.

Note that the --with-e2debug configure option is replaceed by two debug 'levels'
--with-debug_high intended for high level debuging (similar to NEWDEBUG, but covering the whole
product)
 and --with-debug_low for low level code debuging

See notes/HOWTO_Logger.md and example e2guardian.conf for more details

LOG ROTATION

New command line option -t for log rotation

See notes/rotating_logs for more details

SECURE PROXY

Secure (TLS) Proxy is now supported.

See NETWORK section in e2guardian.conf for more information.
 

TESTING -  
---------

    Please prefix all bug reports with "v5.5: "

TO DO IN THIS RELEASE
---------------------

    Make sockets non-blocking so time-out works with MITM - complete

    Reduce unnecessary memory usage on in DataBuffer & DMplugins - complete

    Create replacement for mapauthtoports.

    Bearer over basic token-based auth plugin.

    Integrate DMplugins with storyboards for plugin match. - in progress

    Re-implement fancy download manager - in progress

    Option for output file for storyboard trace - complete as part of Logger

    Create 'output-filter' plug-in system for content modification

    POST content filtering


TODO - for later releases.
-----------------------

    Re-look at MITM certificate generation.
    
    Implement a "learning" mode,  test the rules effects without block  

    Storyboard action by filter category (e.g. to replace hard-coded 'ADs' 
        no log option)

    Remove duplicate list/storyboard warnings with a DRY system.


WISHLIST
--------

    Adding a 'control' port (something similar to REST API) to pass commands 
         (eg: reload, update lists, etc) and check status

    Multi-tenancy option.

    Support for authenticaion helpers to allow ntlm, basic etc auth
         without using squid proxy.

    Re-impliment mailing option.

    Per-user exceptions/blocks.

    Per-room blocks.

    Rate-limiting feature 

    HTTP/2 support (v6)

    IPv6 support (v6)

Philip Pearce 8th September 2020


