Upgrading to V5 from e2guardian v4

V5 introduces a completely new model for definition and handling of lists,
logic flow and support for two new modes - transparent(HTTP & HTTPS) and ICAP.

There are changes to the configuration files, mainly in list definition,
but also some other options have been replaced by storyboard options.

The e2guardian.conf is still used for global settings and
e2guardianfn.conf for settings specific to group 'n'.

Both these files contain revised list definitions.  For comptability with
older versions the same list names and paths are retained, so you do
not need to alter your list file structure, unless you want to take
advantage of the new siteiplists.  Details of revised list definition syntax
is in notes/V5_list_definition.pdf. Note that blanket block is now defined in
fn.story and dg style blanket blocks (*, *ip etc) in list files are ignored.

A number of settings have been moved into new Storyboard config files.
These are noted in the example e2guardian.conf and e2guardianf1.conf files.

For details on Storyboard syntax see notes/V5_Storyboard.pdf

The new Storyboard config files are:-

common.story - a library of storyboard functions - you will not need
to change this file, but you may need to refer to it if you need to
make more complex changes to the logic flow.  This provides a logic
functionality as near as possible to v4 built-in logic.

pre-auth.story - actions to be taken before user is put into a filter
group.  You may need to edit this.

site.story - site deployment modification of Storyboard library - you may
need to edit this in order to change the site-wide logic.

fn.story - one per filtergroup - an examplef1.story is provided - you
are likely to need to edit this.

UPGRADE PROCEDURE

Before upgrading make a backup of all your v4 configuration & lists. You will
need to refer to these after the install.

Install E2guardian V5 in a clean area.

Edit e2guardian.conf to your requirements. If you are going to use
transparent mode set the default group for transparent mode.
Leave proxy_ip commented out unless you need to use an upstream proxy.

Edit each e2guardianfn.conf to your requirements.

Using examplef1.story as a template create a fn.story for each filtergroup,
actioning any blanket block required.

If you want to use tranparent https mode redirect port 443 to 8443.
